I love making zipper pouches but
unfortunately a lot of the time I never
have the right zipper that I need for my
project so today I would like to show
you how to shorten a zipper and to add
these nice little tabs to make it nice
and pretty when you are doing your
zipper pouches I usually have a big
zipper like this and obviously this is
not going to work at all so what we want
to do is have our zipper and of course
you cannot do this with a metal zipper
this is for the plastic zippers the
acrylic ones so we will take our zipper
and you need to cut two pieces of fabric
approximately two inches by four inches
and you're going to fold those in half
and press them and those will be on the
ends of our zipper so you're going to
take your project whatever size it may
be this can be any size at all and today
I am using this size and so I need to
see what size I need this zipper to be
so I always start with the head of my
zipper and I'm going to open it up to
get past this little metal piece right
here if I have room if not I can
actually leave it closed and then I can
but this up against here and just trim
this side over here but if I have plenty
of room what I like to do is open this
up and get past this so I don't have to
worry about my needle breaking sewing
over here so I'm just going to open my
zipper up just a tad and I want to pinch
this together a little bit and I'm going
to take one of these I'm going to take
the folded edge and I'm going to butt it
right up against the head of my zipper
like so and we're just going to take a
pin on either side to secure it and it
gets a little peccary right here so I
just kind of push it under make sure
it's but it up and then lay it back down
and secure that side also so we have one
side now we need to do the other side so
what I do is
take a ruler or my mat whatever what
we're trying to find is one inch in from
either side of whatever the project you
are working on so if I take this I'm
going to find my one inch and I'm going
to lay this on here and I'm going to
take this what I want to do is the
butted up side here I'm going to lay it
right at that one inch line also and
then I'm going to come across and I'm
going to match this edge up with the
edge to find my other one inch here and
then I will lay this on here and then
I'll lift it up separate I want the
zipper all by itself and I'm going to
secure this side so now slide this out
of the way I know I have my measurement
so when this gets sewn I will have one
inch on either side and I'm going to go
ahead and sew make sure you put your
zipper foot on and what we want to do is
we're just going to sew very close to
the edge of our fold I come in just
about an eighth of an inch and I like to
start back on the tab part and then come
into the zipper tape and you don't need
to backstitch here because when you get
to sewing all your other parts together
it'll be nice and secure for you so I'm
going to just be right inside my fold
and I'm going to go ahead and sew and
sew very slowly over your needles and
you can go right over your zipper
and pull it out we can take these pins
out flip it around to this side now we
do not want this in the way so let's
make sure this slides over area it's
going to pop your needle and I like to
just back it up just a couple stitches
just like that and again I'm going to
start on the fabric and I'm going to go
ahead and sew right over that alright
so now if we turn this over you can see
how much the zipper is left over here in
here if you're sewing super close
I would suggest flipping it over and
sewing on this side and then walk your
needle over these little metal pieces if
you um if your zipper isn't quite as
long as mine just so we don't pop a
needle so then what we want to do is we
want to trim our zipper and we want to
be about a quarter inch away from here
and just go ahead and cut through this
and then you can do the same over here
and then if we come back to our piece if
we take our ruler and we line up our one
inch again and you go to put this down
you're going to line up again the edge
of your fabric at that one inch line
when you get ready to sew and now you
know you don't have to measure over here
because you measured an inch in on
either side you will have it perfectly
even nice neat edges on your zipper just
like that